German-Austria must return to the great German mo- 
therland, and not because of economic considerations of 
any sort. No, no: even if from the economic point of view 
this union were unimportant, indeed, if it were harmful, it 
ought nevertheless to be brought about. Common blood be- 
longs in a common Reich. As long as the German nation is 
unable even to band together its own children in one com- 
mon State, it has no moral right to think of colonization as 
one of its political aims. Only when the boundaries of the 
Reich include even the last German, only when it is no 
longer possible to assure him of daily bread inside them, 
does there arise, out of the distress of the nation, the moral 
right to acquire foreign soil and territory. The sword is 
then the plow, and from the tears of war there grows the 
daily bread for generations to come. Therefore, this little 
town on the border appears to me the symbol of a great 
task. But in another respect also it looms up as a warning 
to our present time. More than a hundred years ago, this 
insignificant little place had the privilege of gaining an 
immortal place in German history at least by being the 
scene of a tragic misfortune that moved the entire nation. 
There, during the time of the deepest humiliation of our 
fatherland, Johannes Palm, citizen of Nurnberg, a middle- 
class bookdealer, die-hard 'nationalist, 1 an enemy of the 

The idealism of the Wars of Liberation, waged by Prussia 
against Napoleon, is reflected in the career of Johann Phillip 
Palm, Nurnberg book-seller, who in 1806 issued a work en- 
titled, Deutschland in seiner tiefsten Erniedrigung (Germany in 
the Hour of Its Deepest Humiliation). This was a diatribe 
against the Corsican. Palm was tried by a military tribunal, 
sentenced to death, and shot at Braunau on August 26, 1806. 
During the centenary year (1906) a play in honor of Palm was 
written by A. Ebenhoch, an Austrian author. It is possible 
that Hitler may have seen or read this drama. 

Leo Schlageter, a German artillery officer who served after 
the World War in the Free Corps with which General von der 
Goltz attempted to conserve part of what Germany had gained 
by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, was found guilty of sabotage 
by a French military tribunal during the Ruhr invasion of 
1923. He had blown up a portion of the railway line between 
Dusseldorf and Duisburg, and had been caught in the act. 
The assertion that he was 'betrayed* to the French is without 
historical foundation. It was the policy of the German govern- 
ment to discountenance open military measures and to place 
its reliance upon so-called 'passive resistance.' Karl Severing, 
then Social Democratic Minister of the Interior in Prussia, was 
a zealous though cautious patriot whose firm defense of the 
democratic institutions of Weimar angered extremists of all 
kinds. He was thus a favorite Nazi target. The governments oi 
the Reich and of Prussia made every effort to save Schlageter. 
The Vatican intervened in his behalf, and it is generally sup- 
posed that the French authorities would have commuted the 
sentence had it not been for a sudden wave of opposition to 

French, was killed for the sake of the Germany he ardently 
loved even in the hour of its distress. He had obstinately 
refused to denounce his fellow offenders, or rather the chief 
offenders. Thus he acted like Leo Schlageter. But like 
him, he too was betrayed to France by a representative of 
his government. It was a director of the Augsburg police 
who earned that shoddy glory, thus setting an example for 
the new German authorities of Heir Severing's Reich, 
t In this little town on the river Inn, gilded by the light of 
German martyrdom, there lived, at the end of the eighties 
of the last century, my parents, Bavarian by blood, Aus- 
trian by nationality : the father a faithful civil servant, the 

Poincar6's policy in the Chamber. That induced the govern- 
ment to make a show of firmness. Schlageter, whose last words 
are said to have been, 'Germany must live,' was executed on 
May 26, 1923. Immediately he became a German national hero. 
His example more than anything else hallowed the tradition of 
the Free Corps in the popular mind and thus strengthened pro- 
militaristic sentiment. One of the first cultural activities of the 
Nazi regime was a tribute to Schlageter. 

Hitler's family background has been a subject for much re- 
search and speculation. The father, Alois Hitler (1837-1903), 
was the illegitimate son of Maria Anna Schicklgruber; and it is 
generally assumed that the father was the man she married 
Johann Hiedler. Until he was forty, he bore the name of his 
mother, being known as Alois Schicklgruber. Then on January 
8, 1877, he legally changed the name to Hitler, which had been 
that of his maternal grandmother. His third wife was Klara 
Poelzl (1860-1908), who on April 20, 1889, gave birth to Adolf 
Hitler. There may have been a brother or half-brother if 
reports current in Nazi circles are to be credited. At any rate, 
Hitler has a living sister and a half-sister. The first has lived in 
retirement, but the second a woman of considerable charm 
and ability is known to have exercised no little influence at 
times. 